# GCI Tasks: GitHub Issues

## Prerequisites

* A working Zulip development environment. See
  [here](https://github.com/zulip/zulip-gci/blob/master/README.md) for instructions
  on how to set one up.
* Experience working in the Zulip server environment.  We recommend
completing the
[Intro to Zulip Server development beginner task](https://github.com/zulip/zulip-gci/blob/master/tasks/intro-to-zulip-server.md)
before claiming a GitHub issue task, since most GitHub issues require
the knowledge you learn with that task.

## Background

Zulip Issues (https://github.com/zulip/zulip/issues) are the bugs and
open feature requests for the Zulip Project. A longer description of
Zulip's issue types is at
https://github.com/zulip/zulip#how-to-get-involved-with-contributing-to-zulip

Issues we add as GCI tasks are generally bite sizes bugs or features,
but you may work on any open issue in the project. If an issue you
want to work on is not available in the GCI UI, ask on the "GCI tasks"
stream for a mentor to create a task for it.

## Task Description

Read the issue description and discussion.  Try to understand all the
considerations involved in the code.  When making changes, carefully
read the surrounding code to understand the style in which it is
written (which you'll want to replicate) and its behavior.  When
feasible, add tests for the new functionality, so that it will
continue working in the future.

If you have any questions, ask on the "GCI tasks" stream (set the
topic to the issue number) or add comments to the discussion on
Github.

When you have completed the task, submit a pull request to the
`zulip/zulip` github respository. Make sure you reference the issue
number in the
[commit message](https://zulip.readthedocs.io/en/latest/version-control.html#commit-messages).

Be sure to follow the instructions in the "Code Contribution Guide"
section on http://zulip.readthedocs.io/en/latest/.
